# CarND-Controls-MPC
Self-Driving Car Engineer Nanodegree Program

---

## Dependencies

* cmake >= 3.5
 * All OSes: [click here for installation instructions](https://cmake.org/install/)
* make >= 4.1(mac, linux), 3.81(Windows)
  * Linux: make is installed by default on most Linux distros
  * Mac: [install Xcode command line tools to get make](https://developer.apple.com/xcode/features/)
  * Windows: [Click here for installation instructions](http://gnuwin32.sourceforge.net/packages/make.htm)
* gcc/g++ >= 5.4
  * Linux: gcc / g++ is installed by default on most Linux distros
  * Mac: same deal as make - [install Xcode command line tools]((https://developer.apple.com/xcode/features/)
  * Windows: recommend using [MinGW](http://www.mingw.org/)
* [uWebSockets](https://github.com/uWebSockets/uWebSockets)
  * Run either `install-mac.sh` or `install-ubuntu.sh`.
  * If you install from source, checkout to commit `e94b6e1`, i.e.
    ```
    git clone https://github.com/uWebSockets/uWebSockets
    cd uWebSockets
    git checkout e94b6e1
    ```
    Some function signatures have changed in v0.14.x. See [this PR](https://github.com/udacity/CarND-MPC-Project/pull/3) for more details.

* **Ipopt and CppAD:** Please refer to [this document](https://github.com/udacity/CarND-MPC-Project/blob/master/install_Ipopt_CppAD.md) for installation instructions.
* [Eigen](http://eigen.tuxfamily.org/index.php?title=Main_Page). This is already part of the repo so you shouldn't have to worry about it.
* Simulator. You can download these from the [releases tab](https://github.com/udacity/self-driving-car-sim/releases).
* Not a dependency but read the [DATA.md](./DATA.md) for a description of the data sent back from the simulator.


## Basic Build Instructions

1. Clone this repo.
2. Make a build directory: `mkdir build && cd build`
3. Compile: `cmake .. && make`
4. Run it: `./mpc`.

## Tips

1. It's recommended to test the MPC on basic examples to see if your implementation behaves as desired. One possible example
is the vehicle starting offset of a straight line (reference). If the MPC implementation is correct, after some number of timesteps
(not too many) it should find and track the reference line.
2. The `lake_track_waypoints.csv` file has the waypoints of the lake track. You could use this to fit polynomials and points and see of how well your model tracks curve. NOTE: This file might be not completely in sync with the simulator so your solution should NOT depend on it.
3. For visualization this C++ [matplotlib wrapper](https://github.com/lava/matplotlib-cpp) could be helpful.)
4.  Tips for setting up your environment are available [here](https://classroom.udacity.com/nanodegrees/nd013/parts/40f38239-66b6-46ec-ae68-03afd8a601c8/modules/0949fca6-b379-42af-a919-ee50aa304e6a/lessons/f758c44c-5e40-4e01-93b5-1a82aa4e044f/concepts/23d376c7-0195-4276-bdf0-e02f1f3c665d)
5. **VM Latency:** Some students have reported differences in behavior using VM's ostensibly a result of latency.  Please let us know if issues arise as a result of a VM environment.

## Editor Settings

We've purposefully kept editor configuration files out of this repo in order to
keep it as simple and environment agnostic as possible. However, we recommend
using the following settings:

* indent using spaces
* set tab width to 2 spaces (keeps the matrices in source code aligned)

## Code Style

Please (do your best to) stick to [Google's C++ style guide](https://google.github.io/styleguide/cppguide.html).

## Project Report

### The Model

Vehicle kinematic model was used in this MPC project; tire and angle slips were neglected:
```
- x[t+1] = x[t] + v[t] * cos(psi[t]) * dt
- y[t+1] = y[t] + v[t] * sin(psi[t]) * dt
- psi[t+1] = psi[t] + v[t] * delta[t] / Lf * dt
- v[t+1] = v[t] + a[t] * dt
- cte[t+1] = f(x[t]) - y[t] + v[t] * sin(epsi[t]) * dt
- epsi[t+1] = psi[t] - psi_des[t] - v[t] * delta[t] / Lf * dt
```

where:
- `x`: x-coordinate of the vehicle position
- `y`: y-coordinate of the vehicle position
- `psi`: orientation angle of the vehicle
- `v`: velocity of the vehicle
- `cte`: cross-track error
- `epsi`: orientation error

These parameters are the state of the model. And control inputs generated by the MPC model are:
- `a`: vehicle acceleration (throttle)
- `delta`: steering angle

The MPC model was designed such that it finds optimized control inputs (throttle a& steering angle) that minimizes a cost function. Cost function terms are:
- Sum of squared `cte` and squared `epsi`
- Sum of sqaured difference between desired velocity and actual velocity
- Too many control input actions
- Too sharp cahnges in control input values

Each term of the cost function was weighted differently and these weights were tuned in order to generate a reasonable vehicle behavior.

### Polynomial Fitting & Preprocessing
First, points from the simulator were transformed into the vehicle's coordinate system. Then, `polyfit()` function was used to find 3rd degree polynomial coefficients that fits to these transformed points. Then, these 3rd degree polynomial coefficients were fed into `polyeval()` function to compute the cross-track error, `cte`. The psi error, `epsi`, was computed from the derivative of the fitted 3rd order polynomial, so it is simply the negative of the arctan of the second coefficient. These polynomial coefficients were also used by the solver to create a reference trajectory.

### Timesteps (N) & Timestep Duration (dt)
Timestep (N) and Timestep Duration (dt) define the prediction horizon. Having the infinite horizon is ideal as it can guarantee the optimality during the whole span, but this becomes very computationally expensive and affects the controller performance. After tuning around N and dt, their values were set to as follow:
- N = 10
- dt = 0.1

### Dealing with Latency
Generally, Electronic Cotroller Unit (ECU) of a vehicle has 10 ms or 100 ms update rate, so this latency needed to be taken account. Thus, using the same vehicle kinematic model as the update equation and the step delay as 0.1 sec, state after 100 ms from the current state was predicted. These predicted state values were, then, fed into the MPC model.

### Simulation
The vehicle in the simulator successfully drove around the track with its maximum speed at around 97MPH. The simulation run video can be found in this [link](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1lF83TXTy4CPkRwh4MWQcwFsDU-jyglWf/view?usp=sharing).